Claude AI Interaction:

what should i do in this assignment Topics Use ClaudeAI (or alternative Gen-AI tool) to write a Java program that uses OOP design and one of the new data structures you learned this quarter in its solution. Instructions Part 1: Determine the problem Determine the problem you want to solve. Document the problem in a README.md file in your code repo. Files that end in .md are "Markdown" files -- this is a common way that programmers write notes and documentation about code. Here's a [markdown guide for the basic syntaxLinks to an external site.](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/Links to an external site.).

## Problem

The problem that we want AI to write a solution to is...
Part 2: Ask GenAI to solve the problem Ask GenAI what you want it to do. Immediately commit the initial code generated as a file to your repo Part 3: Refine your code result Work with GenAI to get the result you want. Do not give GenAI free rein to create whatever it wants. In other words, do not prompt "make this better" or "add new features". You need to give specific prompts on what you want changed, fixed, or added. For any super interesting results -- make a git commit! Part 4: Save your entire GenAI conversation and results When you get to a good stopping point (maybe after ~30 minutes of back and forth), document the questions you asked and the responses by copy/pasting the interaction into a word document. Upload this as a commit to your repo. Part 5: Reflect on the process Briefly answer the following questions at the bottom of your README.md

What did you learn in the process?
What were the benefits of working with GenAI?
What were the drawbacks?
Any other thoughts?
Show more
11:03 AM
This is a fun assignment! Here's the breakdown:

What you're doing: Use AI (like me!) to generate a Java program that uses OOP (classes, inheritance, etc.) and one of the data structures you learned this quarter — likely something like a Stack, Queue, HashMap, LinkedList, Tree, or Graph.

The steps:

Pick a problem — decide what your Java program will do, then write it up in a README.md
Prompt AI to write the initial code — commit that first draft to your repo right away
Refine it — give specific prompts to improve it (not vague ones like "make it better")
Save the conversation — copy/paste the whole chat into a Word doc and commit it
Reflect — answer a few questions at the bottom of your README.md
The most important creative choice is picking a good problem. It needs to naturally use OOP and one of your data structures. Some ideas that would work well:

A library book checkout system — use a Queue for wait lists, classes for Book/Patron
A Pokémon card inventory tracker — use a HashMap to look up cards by name, classes for Card/Collection (you'd probably find this one fun)
A task manager / to-do app — use a Stack for undo history, classes for Task/User
A simple text adventure game — use a Stack for navigation history, classes for Room/Player
Do you know which data structures you covered this quarter? That'll help narrow down the best fit.

I think lets do pokemon card inventory tracker, and sort it by name from a-z since I have bunch of the collection

11:04 AM
Great choice! Let me help you build this step by step so you have a solid conversation to document for Part 4.

Here's the plan for your program:

A Card class (name, set, rarity, quantity, value)
A Collection class that manages the inventory
Uses a TreeMap (sorted A-Z by key automatically) or a HashMap + sort — TreeMap is cleaner for this
OOP: encapsulation, maybe a simple menu to add/view/remove cards
Let me generate the initial code for you to commit as your Part 2 first draft:

Created a file, read a file
Created a file, read a file
This is your Part 2 initial commit — save this right away before making any changes.

Here's what the code does and how it satisfies the assignment:

OOP design:

Card class — encapsulates name, set, rarity, quantity, and value with getters/setters
Collection class — manages the inventory with add, remove, search, and display methods
PokemonInventory — the main runner class with an interactive menu
Data structure — TreeMap: This is the key one to highlight in your README. A TreeMap is like a HashMap but it automatically keeps all entries sorted by key. Since the key is the card name, the collection is always in A-Z order with zero extra sorting code needed.

For your README, your problem description could be:

The problem we want AI to solve is building a Pokémon card inventory tracker. The program stores cards with their name, set, rarity, quantity, and value. It uses a TreeMap as the core data structure so that cards are always displayed in alphabetical order (A-Z) by name. The program supports adding, removing, and searching for cards through an interactive menu.

Now for Part 3, here are some specific refinement prompts you could try on me:

"Add a way to filter cards by rarity"
"Add input validation so the program doesn't crash if I type letters for quantity"
"Add a feature to update the value of an existing card"
What do you want to refine first?

Pokemoninventory
Code · JAVA 
I think just sort it with set, name, energy, and rarity

11:06 AM
Got it — simplified fields: set, name, energy type, and rarity. Let me update the Card class and everything that uses it.

Ran a command, read a file
Ran a command, read a file
Updated. The Card class now only holds four fields: name, set, energy type, and rarity. The display looks like this when you run it:

Name                 | Set                       | Energy Type  | Rarity
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alakazam             | Base Set                  | Psychic      | Holo Rare
Blastoise            | Base Set                  | Water        | Holo Rare
Charizard            | Base Set                  | Fire         | Holo Rare
...
This would be a good point to make another git commit since it's a meaningful change from the first draft. Anything else you want to tweak — like filtering by energy type, or changing how duplicates are handled?

Pokemoninventory
Code · JAVA 
can u make me a .txt file consist of pokemon card list. use ascended heroes, 151, and prismatic evolutions for the sets and card

11:11 AM
Searched the web
Searched the web
Good, I have enough real card data from all three sets now. Let me build the file.

Created a file, read a file
Created a file, read a file
Here's your card list! It's got 230+ real cards across all three sets formatted exactly like the Java program expects — name, set, energy type, rarity.

A few things to know about what's in it:

Ascended Heroes — includes the big Megas like Mega Charizard Y ex, Mega Gengar ex, Mega Dragonite ex, plus trainer Pokémon like Iono's Bellibolt ex and Team Rocket's Mewtwo ex. Released January 30, 2026.

151 — covers all the original Kanto Pokémon with their SV-era ex versions (Charizard ex, Mewtwo ex, Mew ex, etc.), plus the commons/uncommons for the full evolutionary lines.

Prismatic Evolutions — heavily Eeveelution focused. All 8 Eeveelutions are in here, plus the SIR (Special Illustration Rare) variants which are the chase cards from that set — like Umbreon ex SIR being worth $800+.

You can copy-paste entries from this file directly into your Java program's seed data to test it out. Want me to update the Java code to load cards from this file instead of hardcoding them?

Pokemon card list
TXT 
now update the oop file so the code can read this .txt file

11:14 AM
Viewed a file, ran a command, read a file
Viewed a file, ran a command, read a file
Updated. Here's what changed:

New loadFromFile() method in the Collection class — reads pokemon_card_list.txt line by line using a BufferedReader, splits each line on |, and loads it into the TreeMap. It automatically skips all the header/divider lines (===, ---, blank lines, etc.) so no cleanup needed on the txt file.

Duplicate name handling — since some cards like Flareon ex appear in both Prismatic Evolutions and 151, the code automatically appends the set name to make the key unique (e.g. Flareon ex (Prismatic Evolutions)).

To run it, both files need to be in the same folder:

your-folder/
  PokemonInventory.java
  pokemon_card_list.txt
Then compile and run:

javac PokemonInventory.java
java PokemonInventory
This is another good commit point for Part 3 — it's a meaningful change that adds file I/O. Want to add anything else, like filtering by set or energy type?

Pokemoninventory
Code · JAVA 
now can u make the main file so I can run it

11:23 AM
Ran 7 commands, viewed a file
Ran 7 commands, viewed a file
Works perfectly — 236 cards loaded and sorted A-Z. Now let me package everything up into a zip you can just download and run.

Ran 2 commands, read a file
Ran 2 commands, read a file
Download that zip — it has everything inside:

PokemonInventory/
  PokemonInventory.java       ← source code
  pokemon_card_list.txt       ← your 236 card list
  Card.class                  ← pre-compiled (can run immediately)
  Collection.class
  PokemonInventory.class
  run.sh                      ← Mac/Linux runner
  run.bat                     ← Windows runner
To run it:

Since the .class files are already compiled, you just need Java installed and can run it directly:

Mac/Linux — open Terminal in the folder, type ./run.sh (or sh run.sh)
Windows — double-click run.bat
Either — navigate to the folder in terminal and run java PokemonInventory
The program will load all 236 cards A-Z and give you the full menu. If you don't have Java, download it at java.comLinks to an external site..

Pokemoninventory
ZIP 
